A How-To Guide for Setting Up OTBR with the Nordic nRF52840 Dongle (#19)
canonical/openthread-border-router-snap: wiki.md

> # A How-To Guide for Setting Up OTBR with the Nordic nRF52840 Dongle

Reviewer: This isn't a how-to by itself as it mostly just links to other pages. 
```suggestion
# Setup OpenThread Border Router with nRF52840 Dongle
```

Before proceeding with setting up OTBR (Openthread Brouder Router) on your machine with Nordic nRF52840 Dongle, which acts as a Radio Co-Processor (RCP), 
it is essential to build and flash the RCP firmware onto the dongle.  To do this, follow these steps:

### Build and flash RCP firmware on nRF52480 dongle:

Following the instructions [here](https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/1.9.99-dev1/matter/openthread_rcp_nrf_dongle.html):

If you encounter an error related to pip during the installation of nRF Util, update pip with the following commands:
```
python3 -m pip install -U pip
python3 -m pip install -U nrfutil
```

### Configure and run OTBR snap:

Now that the RCP firmware has successfully flashed, it's time to configure and run the OTBR Snap. 

> Follow these steps in this [guide](https://github.com/canonical/openthread-border-router-snap/wiki/Commission-and-control-a-Matter-Thread-device-via-the-OTBR-Snap#install-and-configure-the-otbr-snap)

Author: It  has been updated to relative URL in wiki now: https://github.com/canonical/openthread-border-router-snap/wiki/Setup-OpenThread-Border-Router-with-nRF52840-Dongle

The `dmesg` command can help with this verification. 
Here's an example of how to use it: 
```
$ sudo dmesg -W
[23930.322598] usb 1-8: USB disconnect, device number 24
[23930.971312] usb 1-8: new full-speed USB device number 25 using xhci_hcd
[23931.130085] usb 1-8: New USB device found, idVendor=1915, idProduct=cafe, bcdDevice= 1.00
[23931.130099] usb 1-8: New USB device strings: Mfr=1, Product=2, SerialNumber=3
[23931.130104] usb 1-8: Product: nRF528xx OpenThread Device
[23931.130108] usb 1-8: Manufacturer: Nordic Semiconductor
[23931.130111] usb 1-8: SerialNumber: F54FE6398B9E
[23931.133681] cdc_acm 1-8:1.0: ttyACM0: USB ACM device
```

### References:
- https://github.com/openthread/openthread/blob/main/src/posix/README.md#nordic-semiconductor-nrf52840
- https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/1.9.99-dev1/matter/openthread_rcp_nrf_dongle.html
- https://github.com/canonical/openthread-border-router-snap/wiki/Commission-and-control-a-Matter-Thread-device-via-the-OTBR-Snap
- https://github.com/openthread/ot-nrf528xx/blob/main/src/nrf52840/README.md#mass-storage-device-known-issue
- https://github.com/crownstone/bluenet/issues/81#issuecomment-561257090

> - https://github.com/makerdiary/nrf52840-mdk-usb-dongle/issues/56#issuecomment-1322301257

Reviewer: Please add link titles. Otherwise, these aren't so useful.

This how-to guide will help you set up and configure OTBR with Nordic nRF52840 Dongle. 

> For additional information and troubleshooting, please refer to the provided references.

Reviewer: Is this meant to be a part of intro?

Author: It has been moved to the beginning now

# Setup OpenThread Border Router with nRF52840 Dongle

This guide will help you set up and configure OTBR with Nordic nRF52840 Dongle. 
For additional information and troubleshooting, please refer to the provided references.

Before proceeding with setting up OTBR (Openthread Brouder Router) on your machine with Nordic Semiconductor nRF52840 Dongle, which acts as a Radio Co-Processor (RCP), 
it is essential to build and flash the RCP firmware onto the dongle.  To do this, follow these steps:

### Build and flash RCP firmware on nRF52480 dongle:

Following the instructions [here](https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/1.9.99-dev1/matter/openthread_rcp_nrf_dongle.html):

#### Debugging tips 

##### Finding the device name

> During the setup process, ensure that the dongle device is connected and recognized as expected at `/dev/ttyACM0`. 
> The `dmesg` command can help with this verification. 
> Here's an example of how to use it: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For flashing the firmware and using the RCP, you need to find the device name assigned to the dongle.

The simplest way to do so is to run `dmesg` with the `-w`/`--follow` flag before connecting the device. 
Here is an example, showing device name `ttyACM0` which means that the device path on the system would be `/dev/ttyACM0`:
```
